Gaming (#518)
solana-developers/solana-cookbook: docs/gaming/game-examples.md

---
title: Learn By Example
head:
  - - meta
    - name: title

>       content: Solana Cookbook | Learn By Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Solana Cookbook | Learn How to Build Solana Games By Example
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:title

>       content: Solana Cookbook | Learn By Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Solana Cookbook | Learn How to Build Solana Games By Example
```

  - - meta
    - name: description

>       content: A list of open source games with tutorials to get you started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: A list of open source games on Solana with tutorials to get you started.
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:description

>       content: A list of open source games with tutorials to get you started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: A list of open source games on Solana with tutorials to get you started.
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:image
      content: https://solanacookbook.com/cookbook-sharing-card.png
  - - meta
    - name: og:image:alt
      content: Solana splash card
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:card
      content: summary
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:site
      content: "@solanacookbook"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:image
      content: "https://solanacookbook.com/cookbook-sharing-card.png"
  - - meta
    - name: robots
      content: index,follow,noodp
  - - meta
    - name: googlebot
      content: index,follow
footer: MIT Licensed
---

> ## An unordered list of open source games as reference for learning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Open source Solana games to reference for learning
```

## Interact with Anchor Program from Unity

A simple example moving a player left and right using Anchor framework and Unity SDK

> <br/>

Reviewer: Why all the `<br/>`s? Can't you get this with normal line breaks?

Author: <img width="275" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5938789/235456070-ba3bc119-3be3-4f25-a86b-4188581d0740.png">
Without the extra linebreaks it doesnt look very nice.

Reviewer: If you just put two line breaks it would work without the `<br/>`

Example:
```
[Example Source Code](https://github.com/Woody4618/SolPlay_Unity_SDK/blob/main/Assets/SolPlay/Scripts/Services/WalletHolderService.cs)

[Example Game](https://solplay.de/SolHunter/index.html)

```

Author: Yeah thats the second picture i posted. It's just, that it's wasting some space. But if you like that better i'll change it to that.

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_vQ3bSs3svs)<br/>
[Live Version](https://solplay.de/TinyAdventure/index.html)<br/>
[Playground](https://beta.solpg.io/tutorials/tiny-adventure)<br/>
[Unity Client](https://github.com/Woody4618/SolPlay_Unity_SDK/tree/main/Assets/SolPlay/Examples/TinyAdventure)<br/>

## Saving Sol in a PDA

> Learn how to safe sol in a PDA seed vault and send it back to a player. Backend is written in Anchor and the frontend is using the Unity SDK<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to save sol in a PDA seed vault and send it back to a player. Backend is written in Anchor and the frontend is using the Unity SDK<br/>
```

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gILXyWvXu7M)<br/>
[Live Version](https://solplay.de/TinyAdventureTwo/index.html)<br/>
[Source](https://github.com/Woody4618/SolPlay_Unity_SDK/tree/main/Assets/SolPlay/Examples/TinyAdventureTwo)<br/>

> ## On chain match three with matchmaking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## On chain matchmaking
```

<br/>
[Live Version](https://chess.vicyyn.com/)<br/>
[Source](https://github.com/vicyyn/sol-chess/)<br/>

## Multiplayer Game using voting system
Pokemon voting system
A game where collectively people vote on moves in a game boy game. Every move is recorded and each move can be minted as an NFTs.
<br/>
[Live Version](https://solana.playspokemon.xyz/)<br/>
[Source](https://github.com/nelsontky/web3-plays-pokemon)<br/>

## Entity component system example

Kyoudai Clash is an on chain realtime 
Using the jump crypto [Arc framework](https://github.com/JumpCrypto/sol-arc) which is an on chain entity component system for Solana. 
<br/>
[xNFT Version](https://www.xnft.gg/app/D2i3cz9juUPLwbpi8rV2XvAnB5nEe3f8fM5YUpgVprbT)<br/>
[Source](https://github.com/spacemandev-git/dominari-arc)<br/>

## Adventure killing monsters and gaining xp

Lumia online was a hackthon submission and is a nice reference for a little adventure game.
<br/>
[xNFT Version](https://www.xnft.gg/app/D2i3cz9juUPLwbpi8rV2XvAnB5nEe3f8fM5YUpgVprbT)<br/>
[Source](https://github.com/spacemandev-git/dominari-arc)<br/>

> ## Realtime pvp on chain game

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Real-time pvp on chain game
```

SolHunter

> Realtime Solana Battle Royal Game. Using Anchor program, UnitySDK, WebSocket account subscription. Players can spawn their characters represented as one of their NFTs on a grid and move around. If a player hits another player or chest he collect its Sol. The grid is implemented as a two dimensional array where every tile saves the players wallet key and the NFT public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Real-time Solana Battle Royal Game. Using Anchor program, UnitySDK, WebSocket account subscription. Players can spawn their characters represented as one of their NFTs on a grid and move around. If a player hits another player or chest he collect its Sol. The grid is implemented as a two dimensional array where every tile saves the players wallet key and the NFT public key.
```
